edu-1036 | Develop for durable executions | Go dev guide (#2429)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/go/chapter-durable-execution/why-add-the-replay-test.md

---
id: why-add-the-replay-test
title: Why add a Replay test?
description: The Replay test checks whether the current Workflow code (Workflow Definition) is compatible with earlier Workflow Execution's Event Histories.
sidebar_label: why-replay-test
tags:
  - go sdk
  - developer-guide-doc-type
  - event history
  - determinism
---

> The Replay test is important because it verifies whether the current Workflow code (Workflow Definition) remains compatible with the Event Histories of earlier Workflow Executions.

Reviewer: Just note, I debated _whether_ `whether` or `if` was the right word here.
I believe `whether` is correct. But commenting it here in case someone else has the same thought.
(Also, `or not` isn't needed either.)

A failed Replay test typically indicates that the Workflow code exhibits non-deterministic behavior.
In other words, for a specific input, the Workflow code can follow different code paths during each execution, resulting in distinct sequences of Events.

> The Temporal Platform's ability to ensure durable execution depends on the SDK's capability to re-execute code and return to the most recent state of the code's execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Temporal Platform's ability to ensure durable execution depends on the SDK's capability to re-execute code and return to the most recent state of the Workflow Function execution.
```

Because this is the Temporal Platform's code defined in a Workflow, shouldn't we specify the correct terms?

The Replay test executes the same steps as the SDK and verifies compatibility.

> Workflow code becomes non-deterministic primarily through two main avenues.

Reviewer 2: Consider ending with a colon instead of a period, since this sentence introduces a list.

1. **Code changes:** When you change your Workflow code and deploy those changes while there are still active Workflow Executions relying on older code versions.

> 2. **Intrinsic non-deterministic logic:** This occurs when Workflow state or branching logic within the Workflow gets determined by factors beyond the SDK's control."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Intrinsic non-deterministic logic:** This occurs when Workflow state or branching logic within the Workflow gets determined by factors beyond the SDK's control.
```
